# Changelog

## 4.3.0 - 12/21/2021

- Add official support for Python 3.10.
- Pass `Accept-Encoding: gzip, deflate` and `Host: www.sec.gov` headers into all requests as recommended by the SEC fair access rules: https://www.sec.gov/os/accessing-edgar-data. This should lead to smaller request sizes as all requests are now gzipped. It should also help with 403 Forbidden errors since the package is now conforming with the entire suite of fair access rules.

## 4.2.2 - 7/14/2021

### New

- CIKs are now automatically zero-padded to 10 digits to ensure that filings are accurately retrieved by the SEC Edgar system. For example, passing either `"0000789019"` or `"789019"` (the CIK for MSFT) to `get()` will yield equivalent results:

```python
>>> dl.get("10-K", "0000789019", amount=1)
1
>>> dl.get("10-K", "789019", amount=1)
1
```

### Fixed

- Updated the `User-Agent` header to comply with new [SEC Edgar Fair Access requirements](https://www.sec.gov/os/accessing-edgar-data). This should resolve the 403 network errors some users are encountering when downloading a significant number of filings.

### Changed
- A `ValueError` is now raised when a CIK of length >10 or a blank ticker/CIK is passed to `get()`.

## 4.2.1 - 6/22/2021

### Fixed

- Anchor links inside of filings are now resolved correctly. Fragments and external links should now function as intended.
- Renamed `requirements.txt` to `requirements-dev.txt` in order to prevent confusion with the dependencies listed in `setup.py`.

## 4.2.0 - 5/19/2021

### New

- The `httpx` package has been replaced by `requests` to enable the use of an exponential backoff retry mechanism to help alleviate `403 Forbidden` errors some users are seeing. A request to `sec.gov` will be retried at most 10 times (with an exponential backoff applied to each request) before failing.
- A random `User-Agent` string is now included in the headers of each `GET` and `POST` request to `sec.gov`, rather than per session.

## 4.1.0 - 5/9/2021

### New

- HTTP connections are now re-used when possible (using [`httpx.Client()`](https://www.python-httpx.org/advanced/#client-instances)) to improve download performance.

### Fixed

- Requests are now retried at most 5 times if a request fails. This should solve the `500 Server Error`s that some users are experiencing when downloading a large number of filings.

### Changed

- Replaced the internal `requests` package with [`httpx`](https://github.com/encode/httpx), a more modern and performant alternative.

## 4.0.3 - 4/6/2021

### Fixed

- Fixed a `403 Client Error` that could randomly occur when bulk downloading a large number of filings. This error was most likely caused by recent changes to SEC rate-limiting behavior. It has been fixed by including a random user-agent string, generated by the [Faker package](https://faker.readthedocs.io/en/stable/providers/faker.providers.user_agent.html), in the request headers.

## 4.0.2 - 2/18/2021

### Fixed

- Fixed a `RecursionError` that could occur when downloading older filings with the `download_details` flag set to true. Thanks to @neilbartlett for reporting and fixing this bug!

## 4.0.1 - 1/23/2021

### Fixed

- Downloads will no longer halt prematurely if a filing document (full or detail) cannot be found (e.g. when the EDGAR Search API outputs incorrect download URLs). Now, the package will automatically catch such network errors, print a helpful warning message, and then proceed to download the remaining filings.

## 4.0.0 - 1/17/2021

This is a major breaking release. Please see the [v4 migration guide](https://github.com/jadchaar/sec-edgar-downloader/blob/master/docs/v4_migration_guide.md) for information on how to upgrade and adapt your existing codebase to the new package version.

### Added

- The [SEC Edgar Full-Text Search API](https://www.sec.gov/edgar/search/) is now used to fetch filing download URLs. This approach replaces the existing fragile scraping and ATOM RSS implementation used in existing versions of this package.
  - Note: this API only allows for fetching filings after December 1, 2000.
- Added support for searching and downloading filings via a `query` kwarg:
```python
dl = Downloader()
# Download all Apple proxy statements that contain the word "antitrust"
dl.get("DEF 14A", "AAPL", query="antitrust")
```
- Filing details, whose extensions vary based on filing type, are now downloaded in addition to the full submission `txt` file. See the migration guide for information on the revamped folder structure.
- Added the ability to download all available SEC filings. Please see the [README](https://github.com/jadchaar/sec-edgar-downloader/blob/master/README.rst) for a full list of all supported filings.
- `Path` objects can now be used to specify a `download_folder` when constructing a `Downloader` object.
- Added type annotations throughout the codebase.

### Changed

- The current working directory is now used as the default download location. Custom paths can be specified when constructing `Downloader` objects.
- All arguments passed to `dl.get()` other than `filing` and `ticker_or_cik` must be used with a keyword:
```python
dl = Downloader()
dl.get(
    "10-K",
    "AAPL",
    # All other arguments must be used with a keyword
    amount=1,
    after="2019-01-01",
    before="2021-01-01",
    include_amends=True,
    download_details=True,
    query="sample query"
)
```
- The `after_date`, `before_date`, and `num_filings_to_download` kwargs have been renamed to `after`, `before`, and `amount`, respectively.

## 3.0.5 - 5/16/2020

### Added

- Added support for DEF 14A filings (proxy statements).
- Added `tox.ini` and `Makefile` to distribution package.

### Fixed

- Fixed a failing test in the distributed package due to missing sample filings test data.

## 3.0.4 - 4/21/2020

### Added

- Added support for 20-F filings.

## 3.0.3 - 4/8/2020

### Added

- Added support for form 4 filings.

## 3.0.2 - 3/9/2020

### Added

- Added a 0.15s delay to download logic in order to prevent rate-limiting by SEC Edgar.

## 3.0.1 - 1/6/2020

### Added

- Added support for S-1 filings.

## 3.0.0 - 1/5/2020

### Added

- Added the ability to download more than 100 filings.
- Added the ability to specify an `after_date` argument to the `get` method. Example usage:

```python
from sec_edgar_downloader import Downloader
dl = Downloader()

# Get all 8-K filings for Apple after January 1, 2017 and before March 25, 2017
dl.get("8-K", "AAPL", after_date="20170101", before_date="20170325")
```

- Added a `supported_filings` property to the `Downloader` class, which gets a list of all filings supported by the `sec_edgar_downloader` package. Example usage:

```python
from sec_edgar_downloader import Downloader
dl = Downloader()

dl.supported_filings
```

### Changed

- Package has been completely re-written from the ground up.
- The `Downloader` class now has a single `get` entry point method. This change was made to improve and ease maintainability. Here is the new stub for the `get` method:

```python
class Downloader:
    def get(
        self,
        filing_type,
        ticker_or_cik,
        num_filings_to_download=None,
        after_date=None,
        before_date=None,
        include_amends=False
    )
```

Example usage of the new method:

```python
from sec_edgar_downloader import Downloader
dl = Downloader()

# Get all 8-K filings for Apple
dl.get("8-K", "AAPL")
```

### Removed

- Replaced retrieval methods for each filing type with a single point of entry. The bulk method `get_all_available_filings` has also been removed, so any bulk actions need to be completed manually as follows:

```python
# Get the latest supported filings, if available, for Apple
for filing_type in dl.supported_filings:
    dl.get(filing_type, "AAPL", 1)

# Get the latest supported filings, if available, for a
# specified list of tickers and CIKs
symbols = ["AAPL", "MSFT", "0000102909", "V", "FB"]
for s in symbols:
    for filing_type in dl.supported_filings:
        dl.get(filing_type, s, 1)
```

## 2.2.1 - 9/18/2019

- Added support for [form 10KSB](https://www.vcexperts.com/definition/form-10-ksb).
- Added docs and tests to PyPI distribution package.
- Locked the `requests` dependency to `v2.22.0` or greater to ensure optimal performance and compatibility.

## 2.2.0 - 6/28/2019

- `sec-edgar-downloader` is now fully documented 🎉. You can view the latest documentation at [sec-edgar-downloader.readthedocs.io](https://sec-edgar-downloader.readthedocs.io).
- Changed file encoding for filing downloads from `utf-8` to `ascii`. This switch was made because SEC filings should be [submitted in ASCII format](https://www.sec.gov/info/edgar/quick-reference/create-ascii-files.pdf).
- Locked the `lxml` dependency to `v4.3.4` or greater to fix Python 3.8 install issues.

## 2.1.0 - 6/8/2019

- Added `before_date` parameter to each filing download method. If this value is not specified, it will default to the current date.
- Added `include_amends` parameter to each filing download method. If this value is not specified, it will default to false.
- Added support for passing relative (e.g. `./`, `../`) and user (e.g. `~/`) download paths to the `Downloader` constructor
- An `IOError` is no longer thrown when an invalid download path is passed to the `Downloader` constructor. Instead,`sec_edgar_downloader` will create all the necessary directories in the path if they do not exist.
- Filing documents are no longer downloaded in streamed chunks.
- Downloads are now written to disk with UTF-8 encoding.
- Added `__version__` variable to package.
- Travis CI now uses tox to lint and run tests.
- Added `verbose` flag to `Downloader` constructor to enable information printing (e.g. how many filings are found and downloaded). `verbose` will default to false, meaning that no download information will be printed by default.

## 2.0.1 - 5/13/2019

- Cleaned up README
- Tweaked package naming in setup.py

## 2.0.0 - 5/13/2019

- The method for obtaining 13F filings has been split up into two methods: one for obtaining 13F-NT filings and another one for obtaining 13F-HR filings
  - You can read about the differences [here](https://www.sec.gov/divisions/investment/13ffaq.htm)
- You can now specify the number of filings to download in the `get_all_available_filings` method
- Simplified API by combining ticker and CIK functionality into a single method for each filing type
  - Available methods: `get_8k_filings`, `get_10k_filings`, `get_10q_filings`, `get_13f_nt_filings`, `get_13f_hr_filings`, `get_sc_13g_filings`, `get_sd_filings`, `get_all_available_filings`
  - All these methods can be passed either a CIK or ticker string
- Removed ticker validation to facilitate this simplified API change
- Added a full suite of unit and integration tests along with an internal Travis CI pipeline for increased reliability
- Class methods now return the number of filings downloaded
- Added Python 3.8 support

## 1.2.0 - 2/14/2019

- Added the ability to specify the number of filings to download
  - For example, you can download the latest 10-K for MSFT with this command: `downloader.get_10k_filing_for_ticker("MSFT", 1)`
  - This is available for all non-bulk methods: `get_8k_filing_for_ticker`, `get_10k_filing_for_ticker`, `get_10q_filing_for_ticker`, `get_13f_filing_for_ticker`, `get_sc_13g_filing_for_ticker`, `get_sd_filing_for_ticker`, and the CIK equivalents

## 1.1.4 - 12/29/2018

- Internal renaming changes

## 1.1.3 - 12/28/2018

- Reduced size of ticker validation data by changing an internal data structure

## 1.1.2 - 12/27/2018

- Fixed the "FileNotFoundError" on import

## 1.1.1 - 12/26/2018

- Tweaked PyPI description

## 1.1.0 - 12/26/2018

- Filing downloads are now handled in chunks to improve download and save speed
- Removed get_select_filings_for_ticker() to reduce redundancy
- Added support for SC 13G filings
- Separated ticker and CIK class methods for easier use
- Added ticker symbol validation

## 1.0.1 - 12/20/2018

- Files now save as ".txt" rather than ".html"

## 1.0.0 - 12/20/2018

- Initial release
